---
layout: post
title:  "Zodiac Worksheet"
date:   2017-08-05
categories: week3
tags: week3, chinese, zodiac, maybe, cases, guards
---

# Worksheet One: The Job Prospects of a Computer Scientist
*You are a blossoming young computer scientist, and have just landed the job of your dreams, working at the most reputable internet giant- Buzzfeed.*
***"*** **(insert name here)* ***, we're so happy to have you here! We have some incredibly challenging and fulfilling jobs for you!*** *your boss tells you, as you walk down the glistening corriders. She directs you into a small cleaning closet that contains something vaguely cube-shaped... could it be a computer?!*

*The boss hands you a sticky note, smiles caringly, then strides back out into those prosperous hallways. The door of the closet slowly creaks shut after her, while you gaze uncertainly at your new office.*

***"Everyone starts somewhere, right?*** *you whisper to the mop beside you. It drips despondently in reply. Withou further ado, you kick the computer into life, and examine the sticky note, eager to program the infrastructure of the internet's most vital news source. It reads:*

**Your first task is to build the functions underpinning our latest mind-blowing quiz- which determines the zodiac of a given person, just from their name!!!**

### Question 1: Match a name to a year

a) Introduce yourself to the other people in your group and write down everybody's name and birth year on a whiteboard. Using case statements or guards, write a function called `NameToYear` which inputs a group member's name (as a `String`) and outputs their birth year (as an `Int`).

b) What is the difference between case and guard statements? Which one should you use here?

c) What happens if you input a name that is not listed in your `NameToYear` function? Edit your function from part a) to include a relevant error message. Hint: _Use a "wild card" (underscore)._

d) Error messages are not elegant, and should instead be handled by a `Maybe` type. Edit your function from part c) so that names which are not listed return `Nothing`.

### Question 2: Match a year to a zodiac

a) Using the table provided as a reference, create a new custom data type called `Zodiac` which includes the Chinese zodiac signs of your group members.

b) Write a function called `YearToZodiac`, which inputs a year and outputs the corresponding zodiac sign.

c) Edit your function from Question 2 b) using a `Maybe` type. You should handle years not listed in your `YearToZodiac` function so that they return `Nothing`.

d) Edit your function from Question 2 c) so that it accepts a `Maybe Int` as an input. Your type definition should be:

`YearToZodiac :: Maybe Int -> Maybe Zodiac`


### Question 3: Match a name to a zodiac

You now have a way of turning a name into a year, and turning a year into a zodiac. Using your `NameToYear` and `YearToZodiac` functions, write a final function called `NameToZodiac` which inputs someone's name and outputs their zodiac sign.
