---
layout: post
title:  "T9 to text the tyrant"
date:   2017-05-14 
categories: worksheets wk11
---

T9 is a method of typing in words using letters on a keypad (such as on candy-bar phones and other keypad-only interfaces.  The keypad usually looks like the image on the right (but there are variations).
Note that the 1 key has no other characters, the 0 key is used to insert the “space” character, the asterisk (*) key is used to insert punctuation 
( ()’.,!? etc ), and the octothorpe (#) key is used to switch between capital and small letters, amongst other modifiers.  In this activity, we’re going to ignore the # modifiers in the interest of simplicity.

Before T9, you had to press the key multiple times to arrive at the correct input (e.g. for “h” you had to press 4 -> 4).  T9 uses a smarter approach, suggesting the most common word for the value of keypresses in a sequence 
(e.g.  just pressing 4 gives the suggestion “I”, pressing 4->6 gives the suggestion “in”).
We want to write a series of functions to go from an input of keypresses 
(e.g. 4->3->5->5->6) to the most common word(e.g. “hello”).

1.	Working at the TYPE level only (ignore implementation!), come up with a series of TYPES using algebraic notation (you can use a Haskell-y type signature if you like) for:
  -	A single keypress
  -	A function to transform from a keypress into all its possible values
  -	A function to transform lists of characters into their combinations as strings (e.g. [“abc”,”def”] -> [“ad”,”ae”,..,”cf”]
  -	A function to form a “dictionary” of all possible character combinations given a sequence of  keypresses (do you need some new types here?)
  -	A function to remove the “garbage words” from this “dictionary”
  -	A function that assigns a probability value (e.g. is this a common word for that sequence?) to each word of this  now clean “dictionary”
  -	A function that chooses the word from the “dictionary” with the highest probability value for the input
  -	A function that wraps this all together to go from a sequence of keypresses to a single word!
2.	Consider the function make_combinations, taking a list of keypresses and turning them into a “dictionary” of possible letter combinations.  How would you approach this problem (is there a way to reuse previous functions to transform types – ignoring their implementation! – to your advantage)?  
3.	Create a type signature for remove_garbage that, given a list of  “known words” and a built-up “dictionary” of  words formed from the keypresses, strips out (filters) the garbage words from the list.
4.	Create a type signature for a pipeline function that takes a list of keypresses and returns a dictionary of possible non-garbage words.
5.	Assume now that the “known words” list is actually a list of tuples, of type (Word,Probability) where type Word = String and type Probability = Float.  Improve your “pipeline” type signature above to add in the probability as a tuple (non-garbage-word,assigned-probability).
6.	Create a type signature for a function that sorts these tuples in the list by probability (highest probability first)!
7.	Draft up (implement using the functions you’ve defined type signatures for) a top-level function that takes in a series of keypresses and translates them into a single possible word.
